# Goma for Chromium contributors

This document describes how to install and use Goma.  It is intended for
early access for external Chromium contributors.

[TOC]

# Getting started

This section explains the one-shot procedure to start using the Goma service.
You need to do the following once you start using Goma.

## System requirements

* A x86-64 machine with at least 8GB of RAM.
* Linux
* You must have python 2.7 or later installed already.
* You must have [depot\_tools](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/linux/build_instructions.md#install) installed already.
  Please make sure your `PATH` environment variable has `depot_tools` path.

Most development is done on Ubuntu (currently 16.04, Xenial Xerus).
It might work on other distros, but they are mostly unsupported.

## Please wait for invitation from Google

*You can use the Goma service upon invitation from Google*

We will gradually invite active external Chromium contributors to use
the Goma service (i.e. using Goma backend server paid for by Google).

For contributors who has [tryjob access](https://www.chromium.org/getting-involved/become-a-committer#TOC-Try-job-access),
sign up [the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScltm4nUfbKOaOe141YYW2_MzKQWHAjxdg1K_FfIXTAEMzUkA/viewform).
Then, follow up with Googlers you work together to nominate yourself.
Note that this is a best-effort process.  We do not guarantee when you will be
invited.

The rest of the procedures will work after you are registered as a Goma user.

## Login to Goma service

Please use `goma_auth` in `depot_tools` to login.
To use Goma service, you must agree to our data usage policy.

```shell
$ goma_auth login
```

Note: `goma_auth` understands `https_proxy` environment variable.

# How to build Chromium with Goma?

This section explains the typical workflow for using Goma.

## Start `compiler_proxy` daemon

```shell
$ goma_ctl ensure_start
```

Note: `goma_ctl` understands `https_proxy` environment variable.

## Build chromium using Goma

```shell
$ cd ${chromium_src}
$ gn gen out/Default --args="use_goma=true"
```

Or, execute `gn args out/Default` and add followings:
```
use_goma=true
```

Then, build chromium using Goma.

```shell
$ cd ${chromium_src}
$ autoninja -C out/Default
```

# FAQ

## How to use the latest Goma client?

If there is a new Goma client commit, the prebuilt Goma client in cipd
repository will automatically be updated, but your installation won't
be updated automatically.

To update your Goma installation, please make sure no program on your
machine is using Goma. i.e. building chromium.
Then, run `goma_ctl update_hook` to download and restart `compiler_proxy`.

```shell
$ goma_ctl update_hook
```

# Known issues

## `compiler_proxy` takes CPU after builds

`compiler_proxy` might take unnecessary CPU after build finished.

It's ok to restart `compiler_proxy` when it happens.

```shell
$ goma_ctl restart
```

or, stop if you don't need to use goma for a while.
```shell
$ goma_ctl ensure_stop
```

Don't forget to start goma before build.

```shell
$ goma_ctl ensure_start
```

# Troubleshooting

## `goma_ctl ensure_start` shows `error: failed to connect to backend servers`

1. Please make sure you have logged in with an email address that you have
   registered.

   The following command shows which user is currently logged in. Please confirm
   that the email address shown is the same one that you had used to nominate
   yourself as a Goma user.

   ```shell
   $ goma_auth info
   ```

   This also shows your account is registered as a Goma user or not.
   If not, please file an issue in crbug.com with `Infra>Goma` component.

1. Please make sure you do not set `GOMA_*` environment by yourself.

   The following command should not show anything.

   ```shell
   $ env | grep ^GOMA_
   ```

If all of above did not help, please file an issue in crbug.com
with `Infra>Goma` component.
Please include the following information:

- output of `cipd installed -root ${depot_tools_dir}/.cipd_bin`
- goma-report.tgz generated by `goma_ctl report`
  It contains all logs generated by goma client.
  TODO: explain what is shared and reason to share?

TODO: create template on crbug.com?
